# Fatigue_Detection_Project
Periodically captures the user's face and detects the level of fatigue using a CNN, then recommends a break accordingly.

There are two tests used for classification: The full face detection using the CNN and eye detection from a short clip of the user. 
The detection process begins by opening the webcam and capturing a 5 second video.  Each frame of the video is saved in a folder as an image.  While this video is being captured, eye detection is performed, which will produce an output of 1 for ‘tired’ or 0 for ‘not tired.’  After the video is captured, the face detection algorithm using the CNN is performed.  First, all the images taken from the video are stored in a list data structure.  Storing them in a list allows for easier iteration of each image.  Next, each image is loaded in, converted to an array and tested using the CNN.  Two variables store the count of ‘tired’ and ‘not tired’ predictions.  The count is increased for the variable representing the prediction of the current image.  After each image has been tested, the two variables will be compared.  If there were more ‘tired’ frames then ‘not tired’, then the final prediction for the video will be ‘tired’ and vice versa.  This final prediction is also stored in a variable as a 1 or 0.

These two tests will then be used to determine the tiredness level of the user.  If one test returned 1, then the user will be labeled as level 1 tired.  If both tests return 1, then the user is level 2 tired.  If neither test returns 1, then they are not tired.  The program will display a popup message informing the user of their level of tiredness and recommend a break, with the length determined by their level.  This process will repeat every 30 minutes until the exit button is pressed, which closes the window.
